Minutes of the ORTC CG Meeting
October 17, 2014

Jisti Meeting Info:
    https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hFk9MhiTpwcITsxZ_KWMzmQ3SSmhdiJmLauYtbv8X-A/edit#slide=id.g4928386c7_212

Agenda
Review of spec changes
Outstanding 1.0 issues
– Stats
– IdP
– Synchronize with 1.0
– Datachannel ?
Rename IceListener to IceGatherer
Latching rules definition & added into spec
– Undefined RTP listening behavior – issue 48
Discuss SVC “automatic” configuration scenario vs manual configuration
Call for implementations. Existing reference implementations:
– ORTC Library: http://www.slideshare.net/ErikLagerway/ortc-lib-introduction
– Call for help, there is plenty to do, some examples:
– Browsers: JS Shim work
– Servers: Node.js work eg. SIP to ORTC Gateway
Google progress; Canary Sender/Receiver – JS bindings? When will we see the rest of the ORTC API ?
Microsoft progress; Progress of Modern API? Under Consideration to Under Development?
Discuss options to migrate this work into the W3C WebRTC WG?

Scribe volunteers are Jon and mchampion

Possibility to have larger conferences is still experimental;)

"Updated Big Picture" slide is essentially one level below the WebRTC 1.0 PeerConnection 

DataChannel is essentially the same as 1.0

Stats API is not on on the slide

Grayish boxes are those that are being introduced into 1.0 

Only thing on the picture that has changed since previous draft is rename to IceGatherer


Coming Attractions slide .... 



DTMF, IdP and DataChannel specs are tied to WebRTC 1.0 and are expected to remain so.

Updated Stats API slide
Proposal to point to 1.0 Stats API and remove redundant text, just describe how the 1.0 Stats API is referenced from ORTC

Robin: Only issue is with Session stats. No objection to referencing the 1.0 Stats API
Bernard: will take another pass at aligning them

Any objections to broadly adopting the 1.0 Stats API?
NONE HEARD

Automatic use of SVC?
Bernard: this is simple in VP8 decoder
But there is potential overhead, should be explicit in encoder.  
Need for layers can change with network conditions.  How does app tell browser to just handle it?

Justin: there should be a knob that says turn on temporal, spatial layering and maybe max layers, details should be handled by browser

(side note: might also be a good idea to be able to set min layers - in use case of slides being unreadable in a given app if the base layer is not high resolution enough - if I was hearing Justin's note correctly)

Discussion of layering - Codec Capabilities and Codec Parameters slide
Justin: THis API is for people who know what they are doing, convenience functions are not a goal.
Bernard: Agrees but the question is how  we expose the necessary capabilities
Justin: Browser should be able to override APIs layer settings to handle bandwidth constraints

Bernard: Clarifies that this is a "best effort" instruction, not a fine tuning of what browser actually does
Justin: Receiver doesn't need to be configured, at least for VP8
Bernard: We should come up with clarifying text

Robin: Any objection to spec saying that these speciify the "up to level" and browser does what it can/wants to do up to that level?

Discussion of processor constraints, which are less straightforward than bandwidth constraints.  

Justin: These are hard problems we've wrestled with for years. Right way forward is
- You doen't get layering unless you ask for it
- Bandwidth or compute limitations may not allow you to get what you asked for

Conclusion: No objections to proposal

Discussion of slides 19-20

Discussion of proposed resolution on slide 22

Slide 23:
    From Peter - Would this work? dictionary RTCRtpCodecParameters { DOMString name; payloadtype payloadType; payloadtype rtxPayloadType; // ... };
    


Resolution: Needs further discussion and proposals on the list

Slide 24 - Issue 155
Justin: Doesn't believe this scenario is possible
Issue proposer not on the call. 
Scenario probably not in scope for ORTC 1.1
Resolution - close issue as no go unless someone can come up with a more compelling rationale

Slide 26 - call for implementations

Claudio: Waited for call for implementations to express our interest.  With ORTC we could support IE.  Not clear what advantages of ORTC over WebRTC today would be
Robin: Not either / or.  There are additional scenarios which ORTC supports, such as native mobile apps
Justin: They are complementary, the advantages are the detailed control surfaces 


Bibop: We are convinced ORTC is going in right direction, developing moderated video chat app.  Want to support project and make it available to consumers.  Will help speed up development proecess.

Justin: Hopes to land pull request to put Sender/Receiver in 1.0, will make additional proposals at upcoming WG meeting.  THese would be read-only components.  Peter has ideas how to bring in more ORTC components into 1.0 to give WG a clear direction for the future. Hopes to see much of CG work in official 

Microsoft will make a public statment about the ORTC status in IE before TPAC

Emil said he encouraged other browsers to implement ORTC











